Ionic 3.0 was released.
And that's not as big as it sounds.
It should break your old code.
But let's take a look at what happened on the official Get up page get up dot com slash deriv. Dokos
slash ironic.
You can click on releases to find the official release notes here.
You'll also find some instructions on how to upgrade your existing project.
It isn't that difficult and you may follow from these instructions to upgrade.
However there are two important things which I want to highlight.
The first important thing is the new ionic native package which you don't have to use but which you
can use ionic native Reed.
We used to in this course and if you do decide to use the new version the way you add or you use these
native plug ins like the camera and on actually changes.
And I will show you how to upgrade the awesome places app to work free of ionic and daemonic native
package in the next lecture.
After this video ends with you I will not do this so definitely hold onto this and have a look at this
lecture to see how to upgrade what I want to highlight.
Here is the ever important change and that affects the grid.
Because here if we scroll down to breaking changes we see that the grid was changed and I didn't use
to grid that much in this course or when I used it.
I used to in a way which will still work because the overall grid components and so on you use still
are the same but you may have a look at the blog post which is linked here to find out if your project
is affected.
Because whilst the overall components are the same the way the grid works behind the scenes changed
some new features were added and some of the directives you used on your components won't work anymore
and that is something I want to have a look at right now.
So you're prepared a simple application.
Start a project just created it.
It's using I onic free.
And here I get two columns.
That's to code for it is now with the old CRID.
Or you could do as you could say call and then let's say 50 to make is 50 percent off the page wide
so he could add call 50 here too and we would have two columns which both take 50 percent of the available
space.
Now if we save this and we let our app reload.
Well what we see here is that actually is not how we should use the grid anymore.
Instead what we should do is we should use call six.
So now the grid uses a 12th column lay out.
And if you want to convert from your old way call 50 50 percent of the width.
Well you should take 50 percent of the columns you have available so 50 percent of 12 columns makes
Col 6 and that is how you should change it.
Think in columns instead of percentages and you have 12 columns at a maximum.
So if we save this we will see the same result as before but now that actually is the way you should
do it.
Use these classes directives here and again have a look at the blog post to find out what else changed.
If some other code of yours is affected by the change this here and how you may take advantage of the
new Brit so that's great if we go back to the release notes.
We see that something about the type of the changed year and you should have a look.
If data affects your code chances are it doesn't at least you didn't use it in due course.
And if you were using the sleights component.
Also something we didn't take a closer look at.
In discourse you might also want to have a look at the changes listed here.
So overall your apps shouldn't break.
Definitely make sure to read Virtud instructions though if you are interested in this.
And with that I'd say let's dive into the next lecture where I will actually upgrade the awesome places
application to ionic free.